[KED-2917] Set up experiment tracking tutorial (#1144)
kedro-org/kedro: docs/source/03_tutorial/07_set_up_experiment_tracking.md

# Set up experiment tracking

> Experiment tracking is the process of saving all machine-learning related experiment information so that it is easy to find and compare past runs.[Kedro-Viz](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz) supports native experiment tracking from [version 4.1.1](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/releases/tag/v4.1.1) onwards. When experiment tracking is enabled in your Kedro project, you will be able to access, edit and compare your experiments directly from the Kedro-Viz web app. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Experiment tracking is the process of saving all machine-learning related experiment information so that it is easy to find and compare past runs. [Kedro-Viz](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz) supports native experiment tracking from [version 4.1.1](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/releases/tag/v4.1.1) onwards. When experiment tracking is enabled in your Kedro project, you will be able to access, edit and compare your experiments directly from the Kedro-Viz web app. 
```

> Enabling experiment tracking features on Kedro-Viz relies on [setting up a session store to capture experiment metadata](#set-up-session-store), [experiment tracking datasets to let Kedro know what metrics should be tracked](#set-up-tracking-datasets) and [modifying your nodes and pipelines to output those metrics](#setting-up-your-nodes-and-pipelines-to-log-metrics). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling experiment tracking features on Kedro-Viz relies on [setting up a session store to capture experiment metadata](#set-up-session-store), [setting up experiment tracking datasets to let Kedro know what metrics should be tracked](#set-up-tracking-datasets) and [modifying your nodes and pipelines to output those metrics](#setting-up-your-nodes-and-pipelines-to-log-metrics). 
```

Reviewer: nit - can these be listed in a point format

Author: Thanks for suggesting this - I've now rearranged this in point format

> 

Reviewer: nit - Can these three be listed be in a point format?

> This tutorial will provide a step-by-step process to set up experiment tracking and access your logged metrics from each run on Kedro-Viz. It will use the spaceflights starter project that is outlined in [this tutorial](../03_tutorial/01_spaceflights_tutorial.md). You can also jump directly to [this section for direct reference in setting up experiment tracking](../03_tutorial/02_experiment_tracking.md) for your Kedro project. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial will provide a step-by-step approach to set up experiment tracking and access your logged metrics from each run on Kedro-Viz. It will use the spaceflights starter project that is outlined in [this tutorial](../03_tutorial/01_spaceflights_tutorial.md). You can also jump directly to [this section for direct reference in setting up experiment tracking](../03_tutorial/02_experiment_tracking.md) for your Kedro project. 
```

Reviewer: nit

Author: thanks for raising this - In this context I would opt to use the word `process` rather than `approach`

You can also access a more detailed demo [here](https://kedro-viz-live-demo.hfa4c8ufrmn4u.eu-west-2.cs.amazonlightsail.com/).

## Project setup

We assume that you have already [installed Kedro](../02_get_started/02_install.md) and [Kedro-Viz](../03_tutorial/06_visualise_pipeline.md). Set up a new Kedro project using spaceflights starter by running:

```bash
kedro new --starter=spaceflights
```

Feel free to name your project as you like, but this guide will assume the project is named **Kedro Experiment Tracking Tutorial**, and that your project is in a sub-folder in your working directory that was created by `kedro new`, named `kedro-experiment-tracking-tutorial`. Keep the default names for the repo_name and python_package when prompted by pressing the enter key.

## Set up session store

> In the domain of experiment tracking, each pipeline run is considered a session. A session store records all related metadata for each pipeline run, from logged metrics to other run-related data such as timestamp, git username and branch. The session store is a SQLite database that gets generated during your first pipeline run after it has been set up in your project.

Author: I've added the link

To set up the session store, go to the `src/settings.py` file and add the following:

```python
from kedro_viz.integrations.kedro.sqlite_store import SQLiteStore
from pathlib import Path
SESSION_STORE_CLASS = SQLiteStore
SESSION_STORE_ARGS = {"path": str(Path(__file__).parents[2] / "data")}
```

> This will specify the creation of the SQLiteStore under the `/data` subfolder, using the SQLiteStore setup from your installed Kedro-Viz plugin. (Please ensure that your installed version of Kedro-Viz is at least version 4.1.1 onwards). This step is crucial for enabling experiment tracking features on Kedro-Viz as it is the database used to serve all run data to the Kedro-Viz front end. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will specify the creation of the SQLiteStore under the `/data` subfolder, using the SQLiteStore setup from your installed Kedro-Viz plugin. (Please ensure that your installed version of Kedro-Viz is at least version 4.1.1 onwards). This step is crucial for enabling experiment tracking features on Kedro-Viz as it is the database that is used to serve all run data to the Kedro-Viz front end. 
```

Author: the suggested wording seems to be a bit run-on -  would prefer to keep the old wording to keep the language concise

## Set up tracking datasets

There are two types of tracking datasets: [`tracking.MetricsDataSet`](/kedro.extras.datasets.tracking.MetricsDataSet) and [`tracking.JSONDataSet`](/kedro.extras.datasets.tracking.JSONDataSet). The `tracking.MetricsDataSet` should be used for tracking numerical metrics, and the `tracking.JSONDataSet` can be used for tracking any other JSON-compatible data like boolean or text-based data.

Let's set up the following 2 datasets to log our r2 scores and parameters for each run by adding the following in `catalog.yml` under `/conf/base`:

```yaml
metrics:
    type: tracking.MetricsDataSet
    filepath: data/09_tracking/metrics.json

companies_columns:
    type: tracking.JSONDataSet

>     filepath: data/09_tracking/companies_columns.json

Author: yep the prettier on my IDE keeps messing my formatting 😆 I've updated this

```python
def preprocess_companies(companies: pd.DataFrame) -> pd.DataFrame:
    """Preprocesses the data for companies.

    Args:
        companies: Raw data.
    Returns:
        Preprocessed data, with `company_rating` converted to a float and
        `iata_approved` converted to boolean.
    """
    companies["iata_approved"] = _is_true(companies["iata_approved"])
    companies["company_rating"] = _parse_percentage(companies["company_rating"])
    return companies, {"columns": companies.columns.tolist(), "data_type": "companies"}
```

Again, you will need to ensure that the dataset is also specified as an output on `pipeline.py` under the `data_processing` pipeline, as follows:

```python
node(
    func=preprocess_companies,
    inputs="companies",
    outputs=["preprocessed_companies", "companies_columns"],
    name="preprocess_companies_node",
)
```

Having set up both datasets, you are now ready to generate your first set of experiment tracking data!

## Generating Run data

One of the beauty of native experiment tracking in Kedro is that all tracked data are generated and stored each time you do a Kedro run. Hence, to generat the data, simply do:

```bash
Kedro run
```

> After the run completes, under `data/09_tracking`, you will now see 2 folders, `companies_column.json` and `metrics.json`. On performing a pipeline run after setting up the tracking datasets, Kedro will generate a folder under the dataset name for each tracked dataset, with each folder containing another folder named under the timestamp of the run. Each subsequent pipeline run will generate a new folder named after the timestamp of the run, in the same directory of the tracked dataset.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the run completes, under `data/09_tracking`, you will now see two folders, `companies_column.json` and `metrics.json`. On performing a pipeline run after setting up the tracking datasets, Kedro will generate a folder under the dataset name for each tracked dataset, with each folder containing another folder named under the timestamp of the run. Each subsequent pipeline run will generate a new folder named after the timestamp of the run, in the same directory of the tracked dataset.
```

Is this paragraph correct like this? I got a bit confused reading it 🤔 Are the last two sentences saying the same but in a different way?

Author: @MerelTheisenQB indeed the current sentences does sound slightly confusing - here I am trying to explain the folder structure and how new run folders gets generated on each new run.

I've updated the paragraph with new wording - let me know if the new wording sounds more clear?

Reviewer 2: Yes it makes more sense now 👍

You will also see the `session_store.db` generated from your first pipeline run after enabling experiment tracking, which is used to store all the generated run metadata, alongside the tracking dataset, to be used for exposing experiment tracking to Kedro-Viz.

![](../meta/images/experiment-tracking_folder.png)

Try to execute `kedro run` a few times to generate a larger set of experiment data. You can also play around with setting up different tracking datasets, and check the logged data via the generated JSON data files.

## Accessing Run data and comparing runs on Kedro-Viz

Here comes the fun part of accessing your run data on Kedro-Viz. Having ensured that you are using Kedro-Viz `>=4.1.1` (you can confirm your Kedro-Viz version by running `kedro info`), run:

```bash
kedro viz
```

> When you open the Kedro-Viz webapp, you will see an `experiment tracking` icon on your left. Clicking the icon will bring you to the experiment tracking page (you can also access the page via `http://127.0.0.1:4141/runsList`), where you will now see the set of experiment data generated from your previous runs, as shown below:

Author: I've added the icon

> When you open the Kedro-Viz webapp, you will see an `experiment tracking` icon on your left. Clicking the icon will bring you to the experiment tracking page (you can also access the page via `http://127.0.0.1:4141/runsList`), where you will now see the set of experiment data generated from your previous runs, as shown below:

Reviewer 2: I think you might need a black version of the icon 😅 
![Screenshot 2022-01-14 at 11 21 08](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/49397448/149507621-45fccf9a-c596-4eb7-a4ba-28480fdb1eaa.png)

> When you open the Kedro-Viz webapp, you will see an `experiment tracking` icon on your left. Clicking the icon will bring you to the experiment tracking page (you can also access the page via `http://127.0.0.1:4141/runsList`), where you will now see the set of experiment data generated from your previous runs, as shown below:

Author: ooo yea good spot - I actually use dark mode on github and completely forgotten about that! 

This reminds me that perhaps I should replace with a png with background color intead - I'll update that. 

P.S I had a quick glance and the different github modes might affect the icon in the plotly doc 👇  - @rashidakanchwala  think you might want to have a look too.  
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/27775658/149508536-20290ecf-7971-445c-9a57-c4ebdefdfc5b.png)

> When you open the Kedro-Viz webapp, you will see an `experiment tracking` icon on your left. Clicking the icon will bring you to the experiment tracking page (you can also access the page via `http://127.0.0.1:4141/runsList`), where you will now see the set of experiment data generated from your previous runs, as shown below:

Author: After discussion with Rashida, I have updated the icon in the plotly docs as well in my latest commit 😉

> When you open the Kedro-Viz webapp, you will see an `experiment tracking` icon on your left. Clicking the icon will bring you to the experiment tracking page (you can also access the page via `http://127.0.0.1:4141/runsList`), where you will now see the set of experiment data generated from your previous runs, as shown below:

Reviewer 2: Awesome, yes this looks much better!

> When you open the Kedro-Viz webapp, you will see an experiment tracking icon ![](../meta/images/icon-experiments.svg) on your left. Clicking the icon will bring you to the experiment tracking page (you can also access the page via `http://127.0.0.1:4141/runsList`), where you will now see the set of experiment data generated from your previous runs, as shown below:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you open the Kedro-Viz web app, you will see an experiment tracking icon ![](../meta/images/icon-experiments.svg) on your left. Clicking the icon will bring you to the experiment tracking page (you can also access the page via `http://127.0.0.1:4141/runsList`), where you will now see the set of experiment data generated from your previous runs, as shown below:
```

![](../meta/images/experiment-tracking_runsList.png)

You will now be able to access, compare and pin your runs by toggling the `Compare runs` button, as shown below:

![](../meta/images/experiment-tracking_demo.gif)

> The Kedro-Viz team will be adding new features in the coming weeks, such as allowing the editing of your run title, adding notes, bookmarking and searching your runs. Keep an eye out on the [Kedro-Viz release page](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/releases) for the upcoming releases.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Keep an eye out on the [Kedro-Viz release page](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/releases) for the upcoming releases on this experiment tracking functionality. 
```

Reviewer 3: I removed the specific features because this would become out of date.

# Set up experiment tracking

> [Kedro-Viz](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz) supports native experiment tracking from [version 4.1.0](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/releases/tag/v4.1.0) onwards. On having enabled Experiment tracking on your Kedro project, you will be able to access, edit and compare your runs directly from the Kedro-Viz web app.

Author: I've updated the wording as suggested and the latest version should reflect the changes

This tutorial will provide a step by step process to set up experiment tracking and access your logged metrics from each run on Kedro-Viz , using the starter project Kedro-spaceflights as outlined in [this tutorial](../03_tutorial/01_spaceflights_tutorial.md). You can also jump directly to [this section](../03_tutorial/02_experiment_tracking.md) for direct reference in setting up experiment tracking for your Kedro project.

> ## Project setup

Reviewer 2: If this is the final section in the tutorial I think we can assume people have followed the previous steps and gone through the whole setup already.

Author: This is set up as a separate tutorial that is based off of the space flight project. I had included this here on the assumption that people who came here might be starting from scratch and doing this tutorial just to familiarise themselves with the new Experiment Tracking setup, and moreover for people who might have landed here directly on google search.

We assume that you have already [installed Kedro](../02_get_started/02_install.md) and [Kedro-Viz](../03_tutorial/06_visualise_pipeline.md). Now set up a new Kedro project using the Kedro-spaceflight starter by running

```bash
kedro new --starter=spaceflights
```

When prompted for a project name, enter `Kedro Experiment Tracking Tutorial`. Subsequently, accept the default suggestions for `repo_name` and `python_package` by pressing enter.

## Set up session store

Within the domain of experiemnt tracking in Kedro, each Kedro run is considered a session. All logged metrics and details of that Kedro run (such as the timestamp, git username and branch) are stored within the session store database, which is a SQLite database that is automatically generated on your first Kedro run after setting up the session store in your Kedro project.

To set up the session store, go to the `settings.py` file under `/src` and add the following:

```python
from kedro_viz.integrations.kedro.sqlite_store import SQLiteStore
from pathlib import Path
SESSION_STORE_CLASS = SQLiteStore
SESSION_STORE_ARGS = {"path": str(Path(__file__).parents[2] / "data")}
```

> 

Author: I've added further explanation of what this code does in my upcoming commit

## Set up tracking datasets

> There are 2 types of tracking datatsets: [`tracking.MetricsDataSet`](/kedro.extras.datasets.tracking.MetricsDataSet) and [`tracking.JSONDataSet`](/kedro.extras.datasets.tracking.JSONDataSet). The `tracking.MetricsDataSet` should be used for tracking numerical metrics, and the `tracking.JSONDataSet` can be used for tracking any other JSON-compatible data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two types of tracking datasets: [`tracking.MetricsDataSet`](/kedro.extras.datasets.tracking.MetricsDataSet) and [`tracking.JSONDataSet`](/kedro.extras.datasets.tracking.JSONDataSet). The `tracking.MetricsDataSet` should be used for tracking numerical metrics and the `tracking.JSONDataSet` can be used for tracking any other JSON-compatible data.
```

> Let's set up the following 2 datasets to log our r2 scores and parameters for each run by adding the following in `catalog.yml` under `/conf/base`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's set up the following two datasets to log `r2 scores` and `parameters` for each run by adding the following in `catalog.yml` under `/conf/base`:
```

Reviewer: Should setting up catalog.yml come after the node and pipeline section?

```yml
metrics:
type: tracking.MetricsDataSet
filepath: data/09_tracking/metrics.json

companies_columns:
  type: tracking.JSONDataSet
  filepath: data/09_tracking/companies_columns.json
```

## Setting up your nodes and pipelines to log metrics

> Now that we have set up the tracked datasets to log our experiment tracking data, the next step is to ensure that the data is returned from your nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that we have set up the tracking datasets to log our experiment tracking data, the next step is to ensure that the data is returned from your nodes.
```

> Let's set up the data to be logged for the metrics dataset - under `nodes.py` of your `data_processing` pipeline (`/src/kedro-experiment-tracking-tutorial/pipelines/data_processing/nodes.py`), modify your `evaluate_model` function by adding in three different metrics: `score` to log your r2 score, `mae` to log your mean absolute error, and `me` to log your max error, and returning those 3 metrics as a key value pair.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's set up the data to be logged for the metrics dataset - under `nodes.py` of your `data_processing` pipeline (`/src/kedro-experiment-tracking-tutorial/pipelines/data_processing/nodes.py`), modify your `evaluate_model` function by adding in three different metrics: `score` to log your r2 score, `mae` to log your mean absolute error, and `me` to log your max error, and return those three metrics as a key value pair.
```

> The new `evaluate_model` function would look this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The new `evaluate_model` function would look like this:
```

```python
def evaluate_model(
    regressor: LinearRegression, X_test: pd.DataFrame, y_test: pd.Series
) -> Dict[str, float]:
    """Calculates and logs the coefficient of determination.

    Args:
        regressor: Trained model.
        X_test: Testing data of independent features.
        y_test: Testing data for price.
    """
    y_pred = regressor.predict(X_test)
    score = r2_score(y_test, y_pred)
    mae = mean_absolute_error(y_test, y_pred)
    me = max_error(y_test, y_pred)
    logger = logging.getLogger(__name__)
    logger.info("Model has a coefficient R^2 of %.3f on test data.", score)
    return {"r2_score": score, "mae": mae, "max_error": me}
```

> The next step is to ensure that the dataset is also specified as an output of your `evaluate_model` node. Under `pipeline.py` of your `data_processing` pipeline, specify the `output` of your `evaluate_model` to be the metrics dataset. Note that it is crucial that the output dataset exactly matches the name of the tracking dataset as specified in the config file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The next step is to ensure that the dataset is also specified as an output of your `evaluate_model` node. Under `pipeline.py` of your `data_processing` pipeline, specify the `output` of your `evaluate_model` to be the `metrics` dataset. Note that it is crucial that the output dataset exactly matches the name of the tracking dataset specified in the catalog file.
```

The node of the `evaluate_model` on the pipeline should look like this:

```python
node(
    func=evaluate_model,
    inputs=["regressor", "X_test", "y_test"],
    name="evaluate_model_node",
    outputs="metrics"
)
```

> Let's repeat the same steps for setting up the `companies_column` dataset. For this dataset we are trying to log the column that contains the list of companies as outlined in `companies.csv` under `/data/01_raw`. Let's set up the tracked dataset from the `preprocess_companies` function under the `data_processing` pipeline by returning the data under a key value pair, as shown below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You have to repeat the same steps for setting up the `companies_column` dataset. For this dataset you should log the column that contains the list of companies as outlined in `companies.csv` under `/data/01_raw`. Adjust the `preprocess_companies` function under the `data_processing` pipeline to return the data under a key value pair, as shown below:
```

```python
def preprocess_companies(companies: pd.DataFrame) -> pd.DataFrame:
    """Preprocesses the data for companies.

    Args:
        companies: Raw data.
    Returns:
        Preprocessed data, with `company_rating` converted to a float and
        `iata_approved` converted to boolean.
    """
    companies["iata_approved"] = _is_true(companies["iata_approved"])
    companies["company_rating"] = _parse_percentage(companies["company_rating"])
    return companies, {"columns": companies.columns.tolist(), "data_type": "companies"}
```

> Again, we will need to ensure that the dataset is also specified as an output on `pipeline.py` under the `data_processing` pipeline, as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Again, you will need to ensure that the dataset is also specified as an output on `pipeline.py` under the `data_processing` pipeline, as follows:
```

```python
node(
    func=preprocess_companies,
    inputs="companies",
    outputs=["preprocessed_companies", "companies_columns"],
    name="preprocess_companies_node",
)
```

> Having set up both datasets, we are now ready to generate our first set of experiment tracking data!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Having set up both datasets, you are now ready to generate your first set of experiment tracking data!
```

## Generating Run data

> One of the beauty of native experiment tracking in Kedro is that all tracked data are generated and stored each time you do a Kedro run. Hence, to generat the data, simply do:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The beauty of native experiment tracking in Kedro is that all tracked data are generated and stored each time you do a Kedro run. Hence, to generate the data, you only need to execute:
```

```bash

> Kedro run

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
kedro run
```

```

> After the run completes, under `data/09_tracking`, you will now see 2 folders, `companies_column.json` and `metrics.json`. On performing a Kedro run after setting up the tracking datasets, Kedro will generate a folder under the dataset name for each tracked dataset, with each folder containing another folder named under the timestamp of the run. Each subsequent Kedro run will generate a new folder named after the timestamp of the run, in the same directory of the tracked dataset.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the run completes, you will now see two folders under `data/09_tracking`, `companies_column.json` and `metrics.json`. Each of these folders contains another folder named under the timestamp of the run. Each subsequent `kedro run` will generate a timestamped folder in the same directory of the tracked dataset.
```

> You will also now see the `session_store.db` generated from your first Kedro run after enabling experiment tracking, which is used to store all the generated run metadata, alongside the tracking dataset, to be exposed via the GraphQL endpoint for Kedro-Viz.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will also see the `session_store.db` generated from your first Kedro run after enabling experiment tracking, which is used to store all the generated run metadata, alongside the tracking dataset, to be exposed via the GraphQL endpoint for Kedro-Viz.
```

Reviewer 2: Do we have any docs explaining how a user can access/use the `GraphQL` endpoint? Do we even want them to directly use this endpoint? If not, I would just remove the mention of GraphQL here.

Author: The usage of the graphql endpoint relates to the Kedro-viz repo and is documented in our latest architecture docs

Reviewer 2: In that case I would link it here. But I still wonder if it's actually relevant to mention it here, or whether it's a bit of information overload.

Author: indeed, I'll take out the mention of graphql

![](../meta/images/experiment-tracking_folder.png)

> Try to perform Kedro run a few times to generate a larger set of experiment data. You can also play around with setting up different tracking datasets, and check the logged data via the genereated JSON data files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Try to execute `kedro run` a few times to generate a larger set of experiment data. You can also play around with setting up different tracking datasets, and check the logged data via the generated JSON data files.
```

## Accessing Run data and comparing runs on Kedro-Viz

> Here comes the fun part of accessing your run data on Kedro-Viz. Having ensured that you are on >=Kedro-Viz4.1.1 (you can confirm your Kedro-Viz version by running `Kedro info`), run

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here comes the fun part of accessing your run data on Kedro-Viz. Having ensured that you are using Kedro-Viz version `>=4.1.1` (you can confirm your Kedro-Viz version by running `Kedro info`), run
```

```bash
kedro viz
```

> On spinning up Kedro-Viz, you will now see an `experiment tracking` icon on your left. Clicking the icon will bring you the the experiment tracking page (you can also access the page via `http://127.0.0.1:4141/runsList`), where you will now see the set of experiment data generated from your previous Kedro runs, as shown below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On spinning up Kedro-Viz, you will now see an `experiment tracking` icon on your left. Clicking the icon will bring you to the experiment tracking page (you can also access the page via `http://127.0.0.1:4141/runsList`), where you will now see the set of experiment data generated from your previous Kedro runs, as shown below:
```

![](../meta/images/experiment-tracking_runsList.png)

You will now be able to access, compare and pin your runs by toggling the `Compare runs` button, as shown below:

![](../meta/images/experiment-tracking_demo.gif)

You can also access a more detailed demo [here](https://kedro-viz-live-demo.hfa4c8ufrmn4u.eu-west-2.cs.amazonlightsail.com/).

> The Kedro-Viz team will be adding new features in the coming weeks, such as allowing the editing your run title, adding notes, bookmarking and searching your runs, etc. Definitely keep an eye out on the [Kedro-Viz release page](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/releases) for the upcoming releases. 

Reviewer 2: I would move this paragraph to the `Feedback` section below and refrain from mentioning features here, just in case we decide not to add somethings.

Author: thanks for suggesting this - not sure to move this to the feedback section as this is mainly more of a 'watch this space' kind of mention instead of asking for feedback.

The features mentioned here are confirmed features that will be shipped in the upcoming releases for Kedro-viz hence I think they could be mentioned - will come back to amend this part once those features are shipped in the next release of Kedro-viz.

Author: P.S the feedback section is now removed as per Yetu's suggestion, so this will stay as is in this section 😄

Let's set up the data to be logged for the metrics dataset - under `nodes.py` of your `data_processing` pipeline (`/src/kedro-experiment-tracking-tutorial/pipelines/data_processing/nodes.py`), modify your `evaluate_model` function by adding in three different metrics: `score` to log your r2 score, `mae` to log your mean absolute error, and `me` to log your max error, and returning those 3 metrics as a key value pair.

The new `evaluate_model` function would look this:

```python
def evaluate_model(
    regressor: LinearRegression, X_test: pd.DataFrame, y_test: pd.Series
) -> Dict[str, float]:
    """Calculates and logs the coefficient of determination.

    Args:
        regressor: Trained model.
        X_test: Testing data of independent features.
        y_test: Testing data for price.
    """
    y_pred = regressor.predict(X_test)
    score = r2_score(y_test, y_pred)
    mae = mean_absolute_error(y_test, y_pred)
    me = max_error(y_test, y_pred)
    logger = logging.getLogger(__name__)
    logger.info("Model has a coefficient R^2 of %.3f on test data.", score)
    return {"r2_score": score, "mae": mae, "max_error": me}
```

> The next step is to ensure that the dataset is also specified as an output of your `evaluate_model` node. Under `pipeline.py` of your `data_processing` pipeline, specify the `output` of your `evaluate_model` to be the metrics dataset. Note that it is crucial that the output dataset exactly matches the name of the tracking dataset as specified in the config file.

Reviewer 3: Could we also just indicate where this `pipeline.py` file is for users?

```python
def preprocess_companies(companies: pd.DataFrame) -> pd.DataFrame:
    """Preprocesses the data for companies.

    Args:
        companies: Raw data.
    Returns:
        Preprocessed data, with `company_rating` converted to a float and
        `iata_approved` converted to boolean.
    """
    companies["iata_approved"] = _is_true(companies["iata_approved"])
    companies["company_rating"] = _parse_percentage(companies["company_rating"])
    return companies, {"columns": companies.columns.tolist(), "data_type": "companies"}
```

Again, we will need to ensure that the dataset is also specified as an output on `pipeline.py` under the `data_processing` pipeline, as follows:

```python
node(
    func=preprocess_companies,
    inputs="companies",
    outputs=["preprocessed_companies", "companies_columns"],
    name="preprocess_companies_node",
)
```

Having set up both datasets, we are now ready to generate our first set of experiment tracking data!

## Generating Run data

One of the beauty of native experiment tracking in Kedro is that all tracked data are generated and stored each time you do a Kedro run. Hence, to generat the data, simply do:

```bash
Kedro run
```

> After the run completes, under `data/09_tracking`, you will now see 2 folders, `companies_column.json` and `metrics.json`. On performing a Kedro run after setting up the tracking datasets, Kedro will generate a folder under the dataset name for each tracked dataset, with each folder containing another folder named under the timestamp of the run. Each subsequent Kedro run will generate a new folder named after the timestamp of the run, in the same directory of the tracked dataset.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After the run completes, under `data/09_tracking`, you will now see 2 folders, `companies_column.json` and `metrics.json`. On performing a pipeline run after setting up the tracking datasets, Kedro will generate a folder under the dataset name for each tracked dataset, with each folder containing another folder named under the timestamp of the run. Each subsequent pipeline run will generate a new folder named after the timestamp of the run, in the same directory of the tracked dataset.
```

> You will also see the `session_store.db` generated from your first Kedro run after enabling experiment tracking, which is used to store all the generated run metadata, alongside the tracking dataset, to be used for exposing experiment tracking to Kedro-Viz.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You will also see the `session_store.db` generated from your first pipeline run after enabling experiment tracking, which is used to store all the generated run metadata, alongside the tracking dataset, to be used for exposing experiment tracking to Kedro-Viz.
```

![](../meta/images/experiment-tracking_folder.png)

> Try to execute `Kedro run` a few times to generate a larger set of experiment data. You can also play around with setting up different tracking datasets, and check the logged data via the generated JSON data files.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Try to execute `kedro run` a few times to generate a larger set of experiment data. You can also play around with setting up different tracking datasets, and check the logged data via the generated JSON data files.
```

## Accessing Run data and comparing runs on Kedro-Viz

> Here comes the fun part of accessing your run data on Kedro-Viz. Having ensured that you are using Kedro-Viz `>=4.1.1` (you can confirm your Kedro-Viz version by running `Kedro info`), run

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here comes the fun part of accessing your run data on Kedro-Viz. Having ensured that you are using Kedro-Viz `>=4.1.1` (you can confirm your Kedro-Viz version by running `kedro info`), run:
```

```bash
kedro viz
```

> On spinning up Kedro-Viz, you will now see an `experiment tracking` icon on your left. Clicking the icon will bring you to the experiment tracking page (you can also access the page via `http://127.0.0.1:4141/runsList`), where you will now see the set of experiment data generated from your previous Kedro runs, as shown below:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you open Kedro-Viz, you will see an `experiment tracking` icon on your left. Clicking the icon will bring you to the experiment tracking page (you can also access the page via `http://127.0.0.1:4141/runsList`), where you will now see the set of experiment data generated from your previous runs, as shown below:
```

![](../meta/images/experiment-tracking_runsList.png)

You will now be able to access, compare and pin your runs by toggling the `Compare runs` button, as shown below:

![](../meta/images/experiment-tracking_demo.gif)

> You can also access a more detailed demo [here](https://kedro-viz-live-demo.hfa4c8ufrmn4u.eu-west-2.cs.amazonlightsail.com/).

Reviewer 3: This is a great note! This should perhaps be moved into the introduction?

Author: Thanks! I've moved this to the first section right underneath the reference to the other section for experiment tracking setup ( line 9)

> s
> 
> ## Feedback
> 
> The Kedro team is constantly working on improving our product, and would love your feedback to help evolve this feature - please reach out to us with any comments or questions via our Discord channel or by via Github issues. (https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro/issues). 
> 
> Happy Tracking! :test_tube:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 3: You're going to hate me for removing this but it just makes the piece longer than it needs to be 🥺
